project structure: Add missing `components` and merged/archived repo history (#266)
servo/book: src/design-documentation/project-structure.md

# Project Structure

- **components**
  - **allocator** — Selects the default global allocator for Servo, and exposing common allocator introspection APIs for memory profiling.
  - **background_hang_monitor** — Code for detecting hangs in child constellation/script threads.
  - **bluetooth** — Implementation of the bluetooth thread.
  - **canvas** — Implementation of painting threads for 2D and WebGL canvases.
  - **config** — Exposes `opts` for inital read only configuration, and `prefs` for runtime configuration.
  - **constellation** — Management of resources for a top-level browsing context (ie. tab).

>   - **default-resources** — A default resource reader that provides baked in resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **default-resources** — A default resource reader that provides baked-in resources.
```

  - **devtools** — In-process server to allow manipulating browser instances via a remote Firefox developer tools client.

>   - **dom_struct** — Macro for constructing DOM object structs to be passed to `spidermonkey`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **dom_struct** — Macro for defining Rust structs that implement WebIDL interfaces.
```

  - **fonts** — Code for dealing with fonts and text shaping.
  - **geometry** — Provides units and helper functions for use with [euclid].
  - **hyper_serde** — Provides wrappers and convenience functions to support [Serde] for some types defined in [cookie], [hyper], [mime] and [time].

>   - **jstraceable_derive** — Derive macro implmenting JSTracable for generated and script code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **jstraceable_derive** — Derive macro implmenting JSTracable for types in the [script]-related crates.
```

  - **layout** — Converts page content into positioned, styled boxes and passes the result to the renderer.

>   - **malloc_size_of** — Measures heap usage of data structures in a way that integrates with Firefox's memory reporting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **malloc_size_of** — Measures heap usage of data structures.
```

>   - **media** — Implementation of multimedia-related functionality, currently GStreamer-only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **media** — Implementation of multimedia-related functionality, abstracting over GStreamer and OpenHarmony.
```

  - **metrics** — A data structure to track web metrics defined in various specifications.
  - **net** — Network protocol implementations, and state and resource management (caching, cookies, etc.).
  - **paint** — Integration with OS windowing/rendering and event loop.
  - **pixels** — Helper functions relating to image/pixel manipulation and decoding
  - **profile** — Memory and time profilers.
  - **script** — Implementation of the DOM (native Rust code and bindings to SpiderMonkey).
  - **script_bindings** - Support code and bindings generated from WebIDL files.
    The bindings consist of traits representing WebIDL interfaces and glue code for the
  SpiderMonkey JavaScript engine.
    The actual trait implementations are located in the `script` crate.
    These are split into two crates in order to improve the speed of incremental builds.
  - **servo** — Entry points for the servo application and libservo embedding library.

>   - **script_webgpu** —

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **script_webgpu** — Implementation of WebGPU web specification.
```

>   - **servo_tracing** —

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **servo_tracing** — Servo-specific macros for integration with the `tracing` crate.
```

  - **shared** — Shared traits/code used by multiple components that don't want to depend on the main crate for build speed reasons.

>   - **storage** —

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **storage** — Persistent storage backend for LocalStorage/IndexedDB.
```

>   - **timers** —

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **timers** — Logic for scheduling and running asynchronous timers with callbacks.
```

>   - **url** —

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **url** — Implementation of URL-related concepts like blobs and origins.
```

>   - **wakelock** —

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **wakelock** — Interface for platform-specific wakelock/screen lock implementation.
```

  - **webdriver_server** — In-process server to allow manipulating browser instances via a WebDriver client.

>   - **webgl** —

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **webgl** — Integration with native accelerated rendering for WebGL.
```

  - **webgpu** — Implementation of threads for the WebGPU API.
  - **webvtt** — Captions and subtitles.
  - **webxr** — OpenXR intergration for virtual reality and augmented reality devices.

>   - **xpath** —

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - **xpath** — Implementation of XPath specification.
```

  - **constellation** — Management of resources for a top-level browsing context (ie. tab).
  - **devtools** — In-process server to allow manipulating browser instances via a remote Firefox developer tools client.
  - **fonts** — Code for dealing with fonts and text shaping.

>   - **hyper_serde** — Provides wrappers and convenience functions to support [Serde] for some types defined in [cookie], [Hyper], [mime] and [time].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **hyper_serde** — Provides wrappers and convenience functions to support [Serde] for some types defined in [cookie], [hyper], [mime] and [time].
```

  - **layout** — Converts page content into positioned, styled boxes and passes the result to the renderer.
  - **layout_thread** — Runs the threads for layout, communicates with the script thread, and calls into the layout crate to do the layout.

>   - **media** — Implmentation of all multimedia related functionality, currently GStreamer-only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **media** — Implementation of multimedia-related functionality, currently GStreamer-only.
```

  - **util** — Assorted utility methods and types that are commonly used throughout the project.
  - **webdriver_server** — In-process server to allow manipulating browser instances via a WebDriver client.
  - **webgpu** — Implementation of threads for the WebGPU API.

>   - **webxr** — OpenXR intergration for Virtual reality and augmented reality devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - **webxr** — OpenXR intergration for virtual reality and augmented reality devices.
```

- [book](https://github.com/servo/book): This book!
- [ci-runners](https://github.com/servo/ci-runners): Scripts and tools used for Servo's CI (continuous integration)
- [malloc_size_of](https://github.com/servo/malloc_size_of): Measure the runtime size of values
- [servo](https://github.com/servo/servo): The main repository for the Servo web platform engine
- [surfman](https://github.com/servo/surfman): Low-level cross-platform Rust library for managing graphic surfaces
- [wpt](https://github.com/servo/wpt): Servo's fork of the Web Platform Tests

## Historical repos

- [media](https://github.com/servo/media) merged in [#42369](https://github.com/servo/servo/pull/42369) 2026-02-07
- [webxr](https://github.com/servo/webxr) merged in [#35228](https://github.com/servo/servo/pull/35228) 2025-01-31
- [hyper_serde](https://github.com/servo/hyper_serde) merged in [#30803](https://github.com/servo/servo/pull/30803) 2023-12-14

[cookie]: https://github.com/SergioBenitez/cookie-rs

> [Hyper]: https://github.com/hyperium/hyper

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[hyper]: https://github.com/hyperium/hyper
```
